What Questions Will They Ask Me:
1. Answer is in JD
Steps:
1. Copy & Paste the JD into Google Doc
2. Organize so that it is comfortable to look at the info
3. Highlight all the info in red and all the keywords, key phrases and themes
	1. Frequency of the phrases
4. Compile notes
5. Construct questions
	1. That are very likely
	
How to Research a Company for a Job Interview
1. Verbiage - themes - Amazon: customer centric company, 14 leadership principles (customer ...) - talk about times when we pleased customer, customer strategy ...
	1. Website
	2. Social media
	3. LinkeIn
	4. Glassdoor
2. Networking - LinkedIn: connections, 2nd connections (send a personalized connection message), 1 or 2 connections
	1. Current tenured empoyees
	2. Newer employees
	3. Former employees
3. LinkedIn - look at trends
	1. Career progressions for in a like role
	2. Where did recently joined people come from?
		 1. Company
		 2. School
	3. How lond did people stay?
	4. Did people get promoted?
	5. Where did the people go?
4. Job posts
	1. key items
	2. LinkedIn: Amount of time open/number of applicants
	3. Like roles globally - expanse of growth
		1. 3-6 monthes - more aggressive in the role - why is it open for that long and what is it that the other candidates are missing, what skills can I bring to the table that would benefit them
		2. If globally - working at a fast pace, getting quick results, making process changes for quicker hires - quick and fast paced
5. Everything else - readily available
    1. Company website - mission, products and services
		1. What new product can we build in company
		2. How can we enhance existing products
		3. How can we retire an existing product
		4. Look at how long have they been in business, locations, testimonials of current employees, customers
	2. Social media - overall campaign - what are they doing
	3. In the news
		1. What's going on in the news
			1. Cloud
		2. Bigger the company, the more specific things we are looking for
	4. Interviews
		1. Find interviews with company employees
			1. With executive people
			2. Get insight into the organization
	5. Online reviews
		1. Glassdoor
		2. Quora
	6. Industry/ Competitors
		1. Google - tech company
		2. Apple - design company - attention to detail
		3. Facebook - social media company
	7. Financials
		1. Look at stocks - 3, 6, 12 months rolling stock
			1. If it is going down, not a good idea to join
			2. If it is going up, good idea to join
	8. Hiring process
		1. Learn from point of contact
		2. Online
		
What is your greatest accomplishment?
1. 5 things are critical
	1. Work example:
		1. Know your audience (personal example is not good)
	2. Dynamic example:
		1. problem solving
		2. leadership
		3. ability to navigate ambiguity
		4. driver results with data
		5. be flexible
		6. teamwork capacity (ability to be a team player/work across teams)
	3. Starl method
		1. Actions - Results - Learnings
			1. Learnings
				1. Two Tiers:
					1. What you learned
					2. Applying learnings
						1. Very important
	4. Position and company focussed
		1. Pic one that is company/role aligning
	5. Passion
		1. Body language pitch and tone are positive
			1. What we say should be positive
				1. Find an example that we are passionate about
	6. The why
		1. This is the reason...
2. Take-ways:
	1. Know your audience
	2. Applied learnings
	3. Company specific
		1. Maybe
	4. feel the passion
	5. tell them why
		1. especially at the end
		
How to Work with Recruiters:
1. Right Person
	1. Target the right person (if networking)
	2. Tell recruiters what roles I am interested in and make sure they they those roles
		1. Or else they may not follow up
2. Be honest
	1. Salary - $120000 - $150000
		1. Other recruiters, companies, interviews
			1. What stage are we in
	2. If you have another offer, mention it
3. Overcommunicate
	1. With recruiter - share everything
		1. We can control if they don't get back
	2. Follow up after interviews
		1. Thank for the opportunity and let them know how it went
	3. Consistently follow up
		1. Engage with recuiter
4. Ask Questions
	1. Ask great questions
		1. Position basics
			1. Why is position open?
			2. One or multiple open?
			3. How long is it open?
			4. How many people are interviewing?
			5. Why am I a good fit?
				1. May be not the right role
	2. Administration, basics, logistics
		1. Confirming where the position is
		2. Other offices and other locations
			1. Remote?
		3. Does the job require travel?
		4. Salary range
			1. Just have an idea (don't ask)
		5. Specific benefits
			1. Health
			2. Dental
			3. 401K
			4. PTO
			5. Sick time
			6. Free Gym
			7. Free food
	3. Process
		1. Find out the steps
		2. How long is the process
			1. Google may take 2-3 months
		3. How often will I hear from you
		4. If multiple offers, ask for response
		5. Follow up: Will you be letting me know when you are out on vacation
			1. They may have backup person
		6. Interview Specific
			1. How many interviews
			2. Is it phone, skype, on-site
			3. Who are the decision makers?
				1. High level manager?
				2. Skip level manager?
				3. Hiring committee?
				4. Executive committee?
				5. What topics will be covered?
					1. Domain?
					2. Behavioral?
	4. Final questions
		1. I would like to ask a few technical questions
			1. Will I get an answer for these?
		2. What questions are other candidates asking?
5. Be Gracious & Kind
	1. Their time is very important
	
Add a Little Detail to Your Interview Answers:
1. Add small details for interview success
	1. 5-10
	2. Items:
		1. Not getting us away from answering the interview question
	3. Distinction
		1. Tell me about project you were managing where a dispute between stakeholders threatened the success of the project, and what did you do?
			1. Situation (keep it short and avoid extranious detail)
				1. Higher level:
					1. Lead sales person and lead engineer could not agree on an advertising feature that organization wanted to add to drive the revenue platform
						1. Already month behind deadline
						2. Pressure from management to move the project to completion had hit a tipping point
				2. Adding details
					1. Bob is slares person and Jane a lead engineer and newer employee could not agree on advertising feature that would add up to a $ 10M to our revenue for our organization per year
					2. At that time we were already a month behind deadline and pressure mounted from our executive leadership that included my boss who was sending emails at 5 AM everyday which was hitting a tipping point and we had to move forward with our project
					3. Details:
						1. We gave names to employees and added their tenure
						2. We added type (Advertising platform)
						3. We added communication (5 AM emails)
					4. Interviewers can connect to the employees and they understand the pressure and tenure
						1. Male female dynamics
						2. Picturing video ads
						3. Receiving communication outside working hours
			2. Action
				1. I met lead sales person and lead engineer separately and we got them into a room to hash things out. We ordered food and blocked enough time to come out with a resolution. There was a lot of back and forth but we had a path by the eod
				2. Details
					1. Get Bob and Jane to the same room. Before that I had a chat with each one of them to understand their viewpoints and challenges and if there is any areas they can be flexible. Based on these findings, I got them both sit in the room and we went through the deck. Secondly I got them white board the challenges and solutions. Each of them were actively listening (practice). We ordered pizza from a good place which put them in a good mood. Last couple of hours, we brought our stakeholders and talked to them about our plan and made sure there is good viability for that plan moving forward and we were able to move our project forward.
						1. We gave names
						2. Visuals (deck, whiteboard, listening piece)
						3. Food - pizza
						4. Talk about other stakeholders could also help
						
Questions to Ask an Interviewer:
1. Always ask questions
	1. Not just at the end
	2. Throughout the interview (get insight into what they want for the role)
		1. Why? To show that we are interested in the role
			1. Big decision
		2. Apply the answers in future interviews as well
			1. To know the process
			2. To know what they are looking for
			3. Engaged in dialogue but run out of time is okay
			4. Not asking shows the candidate is not interested in the role
2. It is okay to go with a piece of paper with questions written down
	1. Shows a level of preparation
		1. Different lists can be prepared for different people
			1. 7 out of 20 ...
		2. Questions differ from hiring manager from team member, cross functional team member ...
3. Questions depend on interviewer and adapting to personality type
	1. Not all questions are appropriate
		1. Depends on role and personality type
			1. If someone likes to answer, can go a little deep
			2. If someone is cold and not answering questions much, do not dig deeper
		2. Adapting candidates can get hired
4. Examples:
	1. Get to know your interviewer personally
		1. What do they like about the company
		2. What do they like about their role
		3. What is that they think is great about the culture, environment
		4. What do they like about their position
		5. What is the career growth been like in the organization
				
		